`AdvancedTable` Keyboard navigation doc update (#2698)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/components/table/advanced-table/partials/accessibility/accessibility.md

### Focus in Advanced Tables

Unlike the Table component, Advanced Table supports keyboard navigation with focus states for each cell. For any other interactions, you must use interactive elements (buttons, links, etc.) within the cells. 

## Keyboard Navigation

The Advanced Table supports two keyboard interaction modes: Navigation Mode and Action Mode. These modes allow users to move through table data and interact with elements using a keyboard.

### Navigation Mode

> 

Reviewer: [nit] There's an extra return in here
```suggestion
```

<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Tab</Doc::Badge>

When a user tabs into the Advanced Table, the first cell is focused.

![Keyboard focus on the sortable 'Artist' column header with sorting controls active.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-tab.png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-left" @title="Left arrow" /></Doc::Badge> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-right" @title="Right arrow" /></Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-up" @title="Up arrow" /></Doc::Badge> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-down" @title="Down arrow" /></Doc::Badge>

Arrow keys move focus to cells in the direction of the input. If the table extends beyond the screen, arrow keys allow movement to access hidden columns.

![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-arrow-key-down.png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Fn</Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-left" @title="Left arrow" /></Doc::Badge>

Move focus to the first cell in the row.

![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-fn-left.png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Fn</Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-right" @title="Right arrow" /></Doc::Badge>

Move focus to the last cell in the row.

![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-fn-right.png)

<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Fn</Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-up"  @title="Up arrow" /></Doc::Badge>

Move focus to the first cell in the column.

![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-fn-up.png)

<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Fn</Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-down"  @title="Down arrow" /></Doc::Badge>

Move focus to the last cell in the column.

![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-fn-down.png)

### Action Mode

<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Enter</Doc::Badge>

> Press Enter in Navigation Mode to enable Action Mode and interact with elements inside a cell. Focus will move to the first actionable element.

Reviewer: You say "inside a cell", but action mode works in any table element (and you use an image of a header in the next example). Should this be more generic?

Reviewer 2: I think Andrew is correct with the current wording - with the advanced table you cant focus anything inside a cell until you press enter. The Advanced Table is by default 1 tab stop (so users can skip past it if they want). When you press enter you focus the first interactive element inside the cell and your focus is trapped within that cell until you press escape.

I agree it would be more consistent to use an image of a header cell here to follow with the rest of the action mode images, but definitely not a blocker to me.

Unlike the Table component, each cell receives focus in the Advanced Table to support users navigating through the table efficiently with a keyboard. For any other interactions, you must use interactive elements (buttons, links, etc.) within the cells. 

## Keyboard Navigation

> The Advanced Table supports two keyboard interaction modes: Navigation Mode and Action Mode. These modes allow users to move through table data and interact with elements using only a keyboard.

Reviewer 3: [nit]
```suggestion
The Advanced Table supports two keyboard interaction modes: Navigation Mode and Action Mode. These modes allow users to move through table data and interact with elements using a keyboard.
```

### Navigation Mode

> When a user tabs into the Advanced Table, the first cell is focused. Arrow keys move between cells.

Reviewer 3: Move text to the relevant location.

```suggestion
```

> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Tab</Doc::Badge>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Tab</Doc::Badge>

When a user tabs into the Advanced Table, the first cell is focused.
```

![Keyboard focus on the sortable 'Artist' column header with sorting controls active.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-tab.png =402x*)

> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Arrow key Down</Doc::Badge>

Reviewer 3: Showing all the possible options

```suggestion
<Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-left" /></Doc::Badge> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-right" /></Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-top" /></Doc::Badge> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-bottom" /></Doc::Badge>

Arrow keys move between cells.
```

![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-arrow-key-down.png =402x*)

**Home (fn + left)**
Move focus to the first cell in the row.

**End (fn + right)**
Move focus to the last cell in the row.

**Page Up (fn + up)**
Move focus to the first cell in the column.

**Page Down (fn + down)**

> Move focus to the last cell in the column.

Reviewer 3: How come you didn't use the format above for these?

Reviewer 3: @andgen404 I wanted to make sure you saw this one. We should use the same format as the examples above. Let me know if you want to pair on this.

Author: I will push the changes up, but I didn't add images for these; I just used the same banner styling. I felt that there would be too many images. That is just my opinion, though. If others think images would be helpful there, I can add them.

Reviewer 3: The images would help reinforce the text. I understand your hesitation since the images are already tall. Have you considered reducing the height of the examples so they don't show all of the table (like you've done with the width)?

Author: Yeah, that's true, I can shorten their height as well.

**Horizontal Scrolling**

> If the table extends beyond the screen, arrow keys allow movement to access hidden columns.

Reviewer 3: This sentence could move up to the arrow keys callout.

### Action Mode

> Press Enter in Navigation Mode to enter Action Mode and interact with elements inside a cell.
> 
> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Enter</Doc::Badge>

Reviewer 3: Swapping the order to align with the formatting of the other pages like this.
```suggestion
<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Enter</Doc::Badge>

Press Enter in Navigation Mode to enter Action Mode and interact with elements inside a cell. 

- If the cell contains one interactive element, focus moves to that element instead of activating it.
- If multiple interactive elements exist, focus moves to the first one. 

```

![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' link inside the table.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-action-mode-link.png =402x*)

**Enter**
- If the cell contains one interactive element, focus moves to that element instead of activating it.

> - If multiple interactive elements exist, focus moves to the first one. Use Tab to navigate between them.

Reviewer 4: Q: Should "Tab" be capitalized here? Maybe we could say "the tab key" instead here. (to keep it distinct from the Tabs/Tab components which do use capitalization.)

> - If multiple interactive elements exist, focus moves to the first one. Use Tab to navigate between them.

Author: ```suggestion
- If multiple interactive elements exist, the focus moves to the first one. Use the tab key to navigate between them.
```

> **Enter**
> - If the cell contains one interactive element, focus moves to that element instead of activating it.
> - If multiple interactive elements exist, focus moves to the first one. Use Tab to navigate between them.
> 
> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Enter</Doc::Badge>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Enter</Doc::Badge>
```

The second click on "Enter" (after activating action mode) also triggers the action, which isn't listed anywhere.

Reviewer 3: "Space" also triggers the action.

![Keyboard focus on the sortable 'Artist' column header with sorting controls active.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-action-mode-sort.png =402x*)

> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Tab</Doc::Badge>
> 
> ![Tooltip appears on focus for the info icon in the 'Artist' column header.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-action-mode-tooltip.png =402x*)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Tab</Doc::Badge>

Use Tab to navigate between actions within the cell.

![Tooltip appears on focus for the info icon in the 'Artist' column header.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-action-mode-tooltip.png =402x*)
```

**Escape**
Returns to navigation mode.

<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Escape</Doc::Badge>

> ![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-arrow-key-down.png =402x*)

Reviewer 5: [Nit] shouldn't this image be showing the header cell being focused? I think you can repurpose `website/public/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-tab.png` for this. Only because the logical order of images in this section are telling a story.

> **Escape**
> Returns to navigation mode.
> 
> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Escape</Doc::Badge>
> 
> ![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-arrow-key-down.png =402x*)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Escape**
<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Escape</Doc::Badge>

Returns to navigation mode.

![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-arrow-key-down.png =402x*)
```

Unlike the Table component, each cell receives focus in the Advanced Table to support users navigating through the table efficiently with a keyboard. For any other interactions, you must use interactive elements (buttons, links, etc.) within the cells. 

## Keyboard Navigation

The Advanced Table supports two keyboard interaction modes: Navigation Mode and Action Mode. These modes allow users to move through table data and interact with elements using a keyboard.

### Navigation Mode

<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Tab</Doc::Badge>

When a user tabs into the Advanced Table, the first cell is focused.

![Keyboard focus on the sortable 'Artist' column header with sorting controls active.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-tab.png =402x*)

> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-left" /></Doc::Badge> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-right" /></Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-top" /></Doc::Badge> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-bottom" /></Doc::Badge>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-left" /></Doc::Badge> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-right" /></Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-up" /></Doc::Badge> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-bottom" /></Doc::Badge>
```

There is no `arrow-top` icon, this is causing the page to have an error right now.

Reviewer 3: Sorry, this is my fault. I should have checked the names of the icons first. Thanks for catching @shleewhite!

> Arrow keys move between cells.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Arrow keys move between cells. If the table extends beyond the screen, arrow keys allow movement to access hidden columns.
```

![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-arrow-key-down.png =402x*)

**Home (fn + left)**
Move focus to the first cell in the row.

**End (fn + right)**
Move focus to the last cell in the row.

**Page Up (fn + up)**
Move focus to the first cell in the column.

**Page Down (fn + down)**
Move focus to the last cell in the column.

> **Horizontal Scrolling**
> If the table extends beyond the screen, arrow keys allow movement to access hidden columns.

Reviewer 3: Moved to the relevant section. 

```suggestion
```

### Action Mode

<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Enter</Doc::Badge>

Press Enter in Navigation Mode to enter Action Mode and interact with elements inside a cell. 

- If the cell contains one interactive element, focus moves to that element instead of activating it.
- If multiple interactive elements exist, focus moves to the first one. 

![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' link inside the table.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-action-mode-link.png =402x*)

> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Enter</Doc::Badge>
> 
> ![Keyboard focus on the sortable 'Artist' column header with sorting controls active.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-action-mode-sort.png =402x*)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Enter</Doc::Badge>

Press Enter again to trigger the action.

![Keyboard focus on the sortable 'Artist' column header with sorting controls active.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-action-mode-sort.png =402x*)
```

<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Tab</Doc::Badge>

Use Tab to navigate between actions within the cell.

![Tooltip appears on focus for the info icon in the 'Artist' column header.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-action-mode-tooltip.png =402x*)

> **Escape**

Reviewer 3: Removing duplicate content

```suggestion
```

<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Escape</Doc::Badge>

Returns to navigation mode.

> ![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](website/public/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-tab.png =402x*)

Reviewer 2: This image is broken currently.

> ![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](website/public/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-tab.png =402x*)

Author: ```suggestion
![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-tab.png =402x*)
```

> Unlike the Table component, each cell receives focus in the Advanced Table to support users navigating through the table efficiently with a keyboard. For any other interactions, you must use interactive elements (buttons, links, etc.) within the cells. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Unlike the Table component, Advanced Table supports keyboard navigation with focus states for each cell. For any other interactions, you must use interactive elements (buttons, links, etc.) within the cells. 
```
(nitpick) Shortening for brevity

## Keyboard Navigation

The Advanced Table supports two keyboard interaction modes: Navigation Mode and Action Mode. These modes allow users to move through table data and interact with elements using a keyboard.

### Navigation Mode

<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Tab</Doc::Badge>

When a user tabs into the Advanced Table, the first cell is focused.

![Keyboard focus on the sortable 'Artist' column header with sorting controls active.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-tab.png =402x*)

> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-left" @title="Left arrowy" /></Doc::Badge> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-right" @title="Right arrow" /></Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-up" @title="Up arrow" /></Doc::Badge> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-down" @title="Down arrow" /></Doc::Badge>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-left" @title="Left arrow" /></Doc::Badge> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-right" @title="Right arrow" /></Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-up" @title="Up arrow" /></Doc::Badge> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-down" @title="Down arrow" /></Doc::Badge>
```

> Arrow keys move between cells. If the table extends beyond the screen, arrow keys allow movement to access hidden columns.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Arrow keys move focus to cells in the direction of the input. If the table extends beyond the screen, arrow keys allow movement to access hidden columns.
```
(nitpick) This clarifies a little, "between" sounds like it's only back and forth with two options but users can go any direction

![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-arrow-key-down.png =402x*)

> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Fn</Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-left" @title="Left arrow" /></Doc::Badge>

Reviewer: I'll second this, it also might work to just create images of each of these steps (maybe with a little border or differentiation), but up to you.

> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Fn</Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-left" @title="Left arrow" /></Doc::Badge>

Reviewer 2: Yeah... I also wonder if the images are helping that much... Would it be simpler to move back towards what the showcase has and just have a list of keyboard commands?
![Screenshot 2025-03-10 at 10 20 32 AM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/742eef87-e4da-47b4-bd9c-8ab3629effad)

Move focus to the first cell in the row.

![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-fn-left.png =402x*)

> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Fn</Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-right" @title="Right arrow" /></Doc::Badge>

Author: Yeah, I noticed that too. I don't know how to align them. @heatherlarsen, do you, by chance know how to align these badges?

> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Fn</Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-right" @title="Right arrow" /></Doc::Badge>

Reviewer 3: My assumption, without inspecting, is that the text's line height and the icon's size may differ. I don't know how to resolve it, but maybe someone on @hashicorp/hds-engineering may be able to take a quick peek.

> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Fn</Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-right" @title="Right arrow" /></Doc::Badge>

Reviewer 2: Pushed a commit to add a new Doc::BadgeGroup that handles alignment when we have multiple badges next to each other.

Unlike the Table component, each cell receives focus in the Advanced Table to support users navigating through the table efficiently with a keyboard. For any other interactions, you must use interactive elements (buttons, links, etc.) within the cells. 

## Keyboard Navigation

The Advanced Table supports two keyboard interaction modes: Navigation Mode and Action Mode. These modes allow users to move through table data and interact with elements using a keyboard.

### Navigation Mode

<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Tab</Doc::Badge>

When a user tabs into the Advanced Table, the first cell is focused.

![Keyboard focus on the sortable 'Artist' column header with sorting controls active.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-tab.png =402x*)

> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-left" /></Doc::Badge> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-right" /></Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-up" /></Doc::Badge> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-down" /></Doc::Badge>

Reviewer 2: Need to add a title to the icons because there is no visible text associated with them.

```suggestion
<Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-left" @title="Left arrowy" /></Doc::Badge> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-right" @title="Right arrow" /></Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-up" @title="Up arrow" /></Doc::Badge> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-down" @title="Down arrow" /></Doc::Badge>
```

Arrow keys move between cells. If the table extends beyond the screen, arrow keys allow movement to access hidden columns.

![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-arrow-key-down.png =402x*)

> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Fn</Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-left" /></Doc::Badge>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Fn</Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-left" @title="Left arrow" /></Doc::Badge>
```

Move focus to the first cell in the row.

![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-fn-left.png =402x*)

> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Fn</Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-right" /></Doc::Badge>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Fn</Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-right" @title="Right arrow" /></Doc::Badge>
```

Move focus to the last cell in the row.

![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-fn-right.png =402x*)

> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Fn</Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-up" /></Doc::Badge>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Fn</Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-up"  @title="Up arrow" /></Doc::Badge>
```

Move focus to the first cell in the column.

![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-fn-up.png =402x*)

> <Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Fn</Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-down" /></Doc::Badge>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Fn</Doc::Badge><Doc::Badge @type="neutral"><Hds::Icon @name="arrow-down"  @title="Down arrow" /></Doc::Badge>
```

Move focus to the last cell in the column.

![Keyboard focus on 'The Beatles' row using the arrow key.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-keyboard-navigation-fn-down.png =402x*)

### Action Mode

<Doc::Badge @type="neutral">Enter</Doc::Badge>

> Press Enter in Navigation Mode to enter Action Mode and interact with elements inside a cell. 
> 
> - If the cell contains one interactive element, focus moves to that element instead of activating it.
> - If multiple interactive elements exist, the focus moves to the first one. Use the tab key to navigate between them.

Reviewer 3: Focus will always go to the first interactive element, so this can be slightly streamlined. You also mentioned tabs moving between elements below, so I removed that. 

```suggestion
Press Enter in Navigation Mode to enable Action Mode and interact with elements inside a cell. Focus will move to the first actionable element.
```
